# MEDIOCRITY IN SOUND SPACE IS GETTING OUT HAND

I've been playing sound space for a while, but only recently I actually picked up the game to play. When I say recently, I mean around 5 years ago; I've played from the start of vulnus to the somewhat new cunev incident. What I'm trying to say is that I've been playing this game for a while.

One thing I think sound space is different from its side games is the community. I think the only reason some people play sound space instead of rhythia or phoenyx or any other version of the game is that in Roblox you have chat to talk to other people, right?

For some reason rhythm games tend to have a very bad and toxic community, with some really cool people, but a great majority of toxic people. I think sound space suffers from the same problem. If you're too good they get pissed because they need to spectate you on the hosts, and if you're too bad they get pissed because "you should be playing this map at least S+++. This community not only made people get pissed and then migrate to other side games or stop playing entirely, but it also created a fear of mediocrity.

This isn’t really about toxicity. It’s about why we’re afraid of being average.

Mediocrity means you're only one more in the crowd. You aren't the best, neither the worst, you're just one more, the guy who people don't even realize you're on the server. But you need to be the best in order to play the hosts the top players are making, you need to be the best so that those toxic guys can't talk about your gameplay, you need to be the best because you need that leaderboard score, you need to be the best because you need the top players to pay attention to your gameplay. But do you?

How long did it take you to do your first tatsuke map? Do you remember struggling through those S-- logic maps? Because if you're anything like me, you probably do. I like looking back at who I was sometimes, the times I didn't care about anything. I don't think I even opened chat while I played, nor did I look into the leaderboard; I just had fun. Maybe playing the same or a different map, slower or faster, it didn't matter how I played the game, it was always fun.

So why do we want more? We like being spectated by someone and then them going "you're so good," right? I mean... I do. The thing is, when nobody says anything and you feel invisible, you feel like you lost your identity in the game. Not because you're playing any worse or accomplishing less, you may even be in the best day you have ever had, but when there is nobody to see it, then what's the point? We focus too much on showing ourselves to others instead of having fun with our own gameplay.

All side games to sound space are single player, mostly because it is hard to implement a multiplayer system as good as the one on the original game, but also because the essence of rhythm games is personal. On a gameplay level you can't play with someone else; you can only play the same map at the same time. This gameplay does not make players cooperate with each other, it makes them compare themselves to each other. People have a problem with egos. It is in our nature as humans to want to be better than other people, and you not only need to be better, but you also need to show that you are better.

I think multiplayer will always bring comparison, some styles more than others. In rhythm games the only form of multiplayer I have ever seen is through a leaderboard, or some other way of objectively comparing which scores are better or worse than others. And to be fair, I'm not unhappy with that approach. I do like seeing that I'm one of the best people on a certain map, and it also motivates me more to push to be in that better spot. But this comparison, when pushed to the extreme, becomes a problem, both demotivating the players that can't quite get there and also making the ones who can, more toxic towards people that can't reach there.

The thing that motivated me to make this video was a message that I didn't screenshot from a good friend of mine called norm. She said something along the lines of, "I don't spectate people because I think what they are doing is hard, or better than what I can do. I spectate them because I like to see them pushing themselves and having fun with the game." She was spectating someone doing a hard map at S- while she said that. For some reason, after seeing that comment, I stopped and reflected that she is totally right. So why don't I spectate everyone too?

I think the answer to this question is quite obvious and simple, but something I didn't expect. I think the reason why I don't spectate people pushing themselves is simply because I have too big of an ego to care. I don't consider myself a toxic guy; I would never comment on someone's bad gameplay in a toxic way unless they are my friend and they know I'm joking. And yet I don't spectate people because I think they are playing the game in a cool way. I spectate them because I want to see their gameplay, not from a "see them play" point of view, but a "could I play this map too?" type of point of view.

Instead of appreciating the game and its gameplay, I was simply comparing other people to myself. I wanted to be better because of whatever reason. Nowadays I don't think I care as much, not even if someone says something mean. I don't really get pissed because I can't pass a map that someone else can; I simply play what I think would be fun. Not caring about others, not comparing myself with others, and simply having fun while playing changed my experience way more than I thought it would. Instead of comparing other people's gameplay to mine, I simply watch and think they are cool for doing that. And the nice part about being on sound space instead of something like rhythia is that I can tell them in real time, "I think you're cool for that."

I think the game will still have a toxic community, and I don't think anything will change that. But there are two messages I want to pass forward, and those are to have fun and tell people to have fun. At the end of the day sound space is mostly a single player game anyway, and what is the point of playing if not to have fun?